# enigmaticIconoclast.github.io
This page is acting as a portfolio and final project for CS3750 Summer 2023 and is featuring projects done by Lilith Eggleston over the course of the class.
The aim of this portfolio is to demonstate, document, and explain the 4 projects that were tackled this semester as well as act as a centeral hub linking the projects together.
If a README file is more your speed to understand these projects this file will document all the written text of the pages and link to the GitHub Repositories for any to explore.
Starting off the projects we have the TicTacToe game. To give context this was where we first started dipping our toes into react. Our goal was to build a simple game with simple graphics based on a web based guide. While the challenges of this project weren't very present due to the existence of the guide, it allowed us to understand the set up of react Apps, familarize ourselves with JavaScript and begin to see how issues like persisting data, or events were handled in JS as well as how to render HTML in real time.
The next major project was a connect 4 game. The challenge of this project was two fold, not only to take the existing TicTacToe game and modifying it to work as connect 4 but also adding in a Mongo Database. This is where we really shifted into a MERN development stack and started to see the larger picture. While expanding the 3X3 grid of tictactoe to the 7x6 grid of connect 4 wasnt hard. A major challange was modifying to game to simulate gravity in a placed piece falling into place from the top. This was handled by making each column act as its own handler. Once a player clicks in the column the code loops through each place starting at the top until it finds either the bottom or a filled in space. It then fills the previous space it read. If the column is full than nothing happens. The final challenge was around the other technology we were adding a Mongo database and express server to host it. Here we practiced sending data from the "Front end" server to the back end to process and store. We also set up a way for the front end to request the data from the back end which would then fetch the data from the database package it and send it back to the front end to display. The hardest part here was making sure the connection from express server to Mongo was stable and didn't give any issues on booting. This was solved by hardcoding the connection string. Not a best practice, but it worked until a later understanding that rebuilding the project would allow us to use the environment variables.
The next project was a sign up and sign in project. This projects goal was to give more practice with the connection between the react and express servers. As well as learn best practices around data security and protecting a users password. To this end we used Sha256 hashing and added a random per user 'Salt score' to the password. The client side job was to do all the hashing on its side so we weren't passing a plain-text password over the network between servers. This required us to keep track of the username, the hashed password and the salt score in the database. Those three would be validated client side and then passed to the express server to be pushed up to the database. The biggest challange ended up being the Login. Which worked a bit differently than the sign up page. Here the user would put in their username and password and two batches of validation would need to be run. Since we aren't allowed to send plaintext passwords over the connection our solution was to once again hash the password client side. The client would first sent the Username to the express server. The express server would attempt to fetch the saltscore of the username and pass that back to the client. If this failed it would return an error and the client would be told to check the username. After recieving the saltscore the client would hash the given password and send the hashed password with the username to the server again. There it would fetch the password, validate if they match on the express end and then return a sign in or failure to the client. The client would handle the response and show the user information dependant on the success of the sign in.
